Add osu! Philippines Nationals 2022-2023 wiki article (#10331)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Tournaments/oPHN/2023_taiko/en.md

- ::{ flag=PH }:: [Phann_](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12905445)
- ::{ flag=PH }:: [Raben](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6257178)
- ::{ flag=PH }:: [space-walker](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9435841)
- ::{ flag=PH }:: [Syntoxical](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18105116)
- ::{ flag=PH }:: [Taikore](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/29115112)
- ::{ flag=PH }:: [Toadette](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11517895)
- ::{ flag=PH }:: [wwowie](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/19445999)
- ::{ flag=PH }:: [xidorn](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7904667)
- ::{ flag=PH }:: [Yron8](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1537747)
- ::{ flag=PH }:: [Zyphore](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9949657)

## Podium

This competition has come to an end and resulted in the following podium:

| Placing | Player |
| :-: | :-- |
| ![Gold crown](/wiki/shared/crown-gold.png "1st place") | ::{ flag=PH }:: [Mochii_31](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/25140935) |
| ![Silver crown](/wiki/shared/crown-silver.png "2nd place") | ::{ flag=PH }:: [Yron8](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1537747) |
| ![Bronze crown](/wiki/shared/crown-bronze.png "3rd place") | ::{ flag=PH }:: [[KN]CuB-03](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18560307) |

## Mappool

> ### Grand finals

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Grand Finals
```

- Tiebreaker
  1. **[Camellia - Body F10ating in the Zero Gravity Space (qish) [Fynbi's 0ni (for PHNT)]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2036546#taiko/4247117)**

### Qualifiers

- No Mod
  1. [Natsushiro Takaaki - Juggernaut (sendol) [Inner Oni]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1824152#taiko/3743021)
  2. [Zekk - Foresight (HiroK) [Genjuro's Inner Oni]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1440285#taiko/2971146)
  3. [Shawn Wasabi + YDG - Burnt Rice (feat. YUNG GEMMY) (Nozdormu) [what was she cooking]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1958127#taiko/4056726)
- Hidden
  1. [DECO*27 x PinocchioP - (Not) A Devil feat. Hatsune Miku (Jonarwhal) [Oni]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2032656#taiko/4237068)
- Hard Rock
  1. [Tartarate - It's rainy to bye (Ph0eNiiXZ) [dtn's Oni]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1909161#taiko/3944605)
- Double Time
  1. [Pegboard Nerds - BAMF (beaw) [Lite Oni]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1839526#taiko/4234299)
- Freemod
  1. [Mameyudoufu feat. Shully - You Mean The World To Me (My Angel Subaru) [Megu & qish's Oni]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2032441#taiko/4236567)

## Match results

> ### Grand finals

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Grand Finals
```

| **[KN]CuB-03** ::{ flag=PH }:: | **5** | 0 | ::{ flag=PH }:: -Birds- | *win by default* |
| **COLE9001** ::{ flag=PH }:: | **5** | 0 | ::{ flag=PH }:: wwowie | [#1](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/109850248) |
| **Yron8** ::{ flag=PH }:: | **5** | 0 | ::{ flag=PH }:: Toadette | [#1](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/109848590) |
| **Mochii_31** ::{ flag=PH }:: | **5** | 0 | ::{ flag=PH }:: BPChingu | [#1](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/109847994) |
| **Farmer Brown** ::{ flag=PH }:: | **5** | 1 | ::{ flag=PH }:: Zyphore | [#1](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/109849392) |

## Ruleset

### General rules

1. This is an osu!taiko, double-elimination, 1v1 tournament open for players globally ranked from #500 to #10000 (inclusive) with the Philippine flag on their profile. Filipino players without the Philippine flag on their profile may present a proof of their Philippine citizenship in order to join
2. Hosts, poolers, custom mappers, and playtesters are strictly not allowed to play. Also, players are allowed to staff as referee, streamer, or commentator once they are eliminated from the tournament.

> 3. Matches will use ScoreV2 and NoFail in Head-to-Head mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Matches will use ScoreV2 and No Fail in Head-to-Head mode.
```

4. Players and staff must be treated with respect. Instructions from the hosts and referees are to be followed. Abusing the rules and poor sportsmanship may result in disqualification from the entire tournament.

> 5. Any modification from the ruleset will be announced. Players must be active on the tournament's discord server in the case of these modifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Any modification from the ruleset will be announced. Players must be active on the tournament's Discord server in the case of these modifications.
```

### Mappool structure

> - There will be separate mappools for each stage. Each mappool contains the following mod brackets: NoMod, Hidden, HardRock, DoubleTime, ForceMod, and Tiebreaker. There will be no Tiebreaker for Qualifiers.
>   - DoubleTime can be played as Nightcore if all players in the lobby agree to it.
>   - ForceMod will be played either with Hidden, HardRock, or Hidden + HardRock.
>   - Tiebreaker will be played with NoMod and will be only played in case of a tie.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- There will be separate mappools for each stage. Each mappool contains the following mod brackets: No Mod, Hidden, Hard Rock, Double Time, Force Mod, and Tiebreaker. There will be no Tiebreaker for Qualifiers.
  - Double Time can be played as Nightcore if all players in the lobby agree to it.
  - Force Mod will be played either with Hidden, Hard Rock, or Hidden + Hard Rock.
  - Tiebreaker will be played with No Mod and will be only played in case of a tie.
```

- The win condition and mappool size per stage are as follows:

> | Round stage | Best of | NM | HD | HR | DT | FM | TB |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Round | Best of | NM | HD | HR | DT | FM | TB |
```

| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| Qualifiers | - | 3 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | - |
| Round of 16 | 9 | 4 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 3 | 1 |
| Quarterfinals | 11 | 5 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 3 | 1 |
| Semifinals | 11 | 5 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 3 | 1 |
| Finals | 13 | 6 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 3 | 1 |

> | Grand finals | 13 | 6 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 3 | 1 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Grand Finals | 13 | 6 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 3 | 1 |
```

### Qualifiers regulations

> 1. Players must sign up to one of the qualifier lobbies provided by the hosts. Instructions will be announced after the Qualifiers mappool showcase. Players may request a special lobby if needed, as long as a referee is available at the requested time. A player that doesn’t pick a time slot before Thursday 23:59 will be disqualified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Players must sign up to one of the Qualifier lobbies provided by the hosts. Instructions will be announced after the Qualifiers mappool showcase. Players may request a special lobby if needed, as long as a referee is available at the requested time. A player that doesn’t pick a time slot before Thursday 23:59 will be disqualified.
```

> 2. There will be no warmups for all qualifiers lobbies. The mappool will be played twice during a lobby, and will be played in the following order: NM1, NM2, NM3, HD1, HR1 ,DT1, FM1. A 5-minute break will be offered between the first and second run of the mappool, which can be skipped if all players in the lobby are ready. A player may skip certain maps during their second run if they so desire.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. There will be no warmups in any Qualifier lobby. The mappool will be played twice during a lobby, and will be played in the following order: NM1, NM2, NM3, HD1, HR1 ,DT1, FM1. A 5-minute break will be offered between the first and second run of the mappool, which can be skipped if all players in the lobby are ready. A player may skip certain maps during their second run if they so desire.
```

3. The player’s highest score for each map will be used for seeding. Players will be ordered by overall rank, which is computed by taking the average of their rankings on each map. In case of a tie, the sum of the top scores of the tied players are taken into account instead. Sharing of scores before the results showcase is discouraged.
4. The number of players that will advance to the next stage will depend on the total number of participants.

### Match regulations

> 1. Each player is allowed (but not required) to have a warm-up with length below 3:00. Players may request to use DoubleTime if the map length is slightly above the restriction. The players must give the map link to their referee 10 minutes before their match. Otherwise, the player’s warm-up is skipped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Each player is allowed (but not required) to have a warm-up with length below 3:00. Players may request to use Double Time if the map length is slightly above the restriction. The players must give the map link to their referee 10 minutes before their match. Otherwise, the player’s warm-up is skipped.
```

5. Players must be ready within 2 minutes after a map was picked. The map will be played once the players are ready or once the timer ends.
6. Each player is allowed to have one 2-minute tactical timeout per match.
7. If a player disconnects during a map within 30 seconds, the player must reconnect within 5 minutes and the map may be replayed. This only applies once for each player. From there onwards, if the player disconnects again at any point of the match, the match will be played out normally until the player reconnects or forfeits the remaining maps.
8. If two players tie on a map, the map is replayed. In case another tie occurs, the map is nullified and another map may be chosen by the same player who picked the nulled map.
9. Scores in the match link are final, unless a player can give a legitimate screenshot (Shift + F12), a replay file, or a video clip. The score in the given proof must be clearly visible in order for it to be accepted.

### Schedule guidelines

1. Schedules in this tournament are defaulted to UTC+8 (Philippine Standard Time).

> 2. Each stage will be held on a single weekend. It is possible to reschedule on a Friday or Monday.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Each stage will be held on a single weekend. It is possible to reschedule to a Friday or Monday.
```
